In this video I'm going to talk about and show you
the Romanian Deadlift - a variation of the regular Deadlift.
During this exercise the barbell doesn't touch the ground between
repetitions and you start in an upright position
then lower the barbell and go back up.
Because of the differences the targeted muscles are a bit different to regular Deadlifts.
The Quadriceps basically gets excluded from this exercise thus
receiving pretty much no work at all.
Especially the posterior chain gets worked hard, which consists of
the hamstrings, the hip and the lower back.
These muscles or muscle groups get worked hard during Romanian Deadlifts.
Many people confuse the Romanian Deadlift (RDL) with
the Straight-Leg(ged) or the Stiff-Leg(ged) Deadlift (SLDL).
The first difference is that during RDLs you start at the top
and then lower the bar to get into the bottom position.
You initiate the movement with the hip by shoving it backwards
while the legs are extended but not fully locked.
When doing SLDLs you start at the floor.
It's more similar to regular Deadlifts because you pick the weight up
at first and lower it back down during each rep.
This leads to slightly different worked muscles or muscle groups.
During RDLs the primary mover are the hamstrings and the hip, while
it's the erector spinae or the lower back for SLDLs.
RDL: eccentric part first (starts at the top)
SLDL:
concentric part first (starts at the bottom)
Regarding exercise form there are as always some noteable points.
Firstly the lower back has to stay contracted during the whole movement.
This is necessary to protect the spine and work the lower back.
Secondly that the bar has to stay close to
the body. Don't let it swing away.
This is also key to reduce the stress which gets placed on your spine.
Taking this into account there are several things
which can go wrong during Romanian Deadlifts.
You might be tempted to round your back, which is bad. Don't do that.
Then there's the issue with rounded shoulders.
For some people this can cause shoulder issues so try
to hold them up and in a natural position.
Also it can happen that if you lower the bar
and you feel a desirable stretch in your hamstrings
Instead of noticing this and going back up you might be tempted to round
your lower back or move your knees forward to get extra depth.
This is not desirable and should be avoided.
Romanian Deadlift: Form
Now, let me show you the exercise form.
Choose a regular double overhand grip that's slightly wider than shoulder-wide.
Some people can go deeper on this exercise than others.
This is simply a case of one's flexibility.
Contract your lower back
Start the movement at the hip
Well, that's about it. Thanks for watching and until next time!
It's your responsibility to evaluate the contents of this video
and consult a doctor before choosing a workout regimen.